We always can filter information that returned by the [[2. SQL]] `SELECT` operation. Main clause for filtering operation is `WHERE` & `IN`
## WHERE
Here is example using `WHERE` clause to filter only private room on listings
```SQL
SELECT * FROM listings WHERE room_type='Private room';
```
When you want to compare dates, we can treat them as a text and put `yyyy-mm-dd`. Here is an example to select reviews from before 16 June 2019
```SQL
SELECT * FROM reviews WHERE date < '2019-06-16';
```
### Operators and Logical
Don't forget basic operator like =, !=,>,>=, <,<= then the logical like `AND`, `OR`, `NOT`
## IN
`IN` clause basically make a list of parameter that we are looking for. It change operator OR for the same column name with different values. Here is the example of `IN` that changes this
```SQL
SELECT * FROM listings WHERE host_id=109067745 OR host_id=43312353 OR host_id=37772146 OR host_id=185126628 OR host_id=22227415
```
To this
```SQL
SELECT * FROM listings WHERE host_id IN (109067745, 43312353, 37772146, 185126628, 22227415);
```
### Resolution Order
`AND` & `OR` could be used together for complex query. But it can make the query jumbled and hard to resolved. Here is an example how to make a better query with this situation
(1) cost less than $100 and neighbourhood_id=20 or
(2) cost more than $120 and in neighbourhood_id=37
Here is the example of bad query
```SQL
-- ⛔️ NOTE: This is a bad query 
SELECT * FROM listings WHERE price_in_dollar < 100 AND neighbourhood_id=20 OR price_in_dollar > 120 AND neighbourhood_id=37
```
Here is the better version with added parentheses ()
```SQL
-- ✅ Right way to do this
SELECT * FROM listings WHERE 
(price_in_dollar < 100 AND neighbourhood_id=20) OR (price_in_dollar > 120 AND neighbourhood_id=37);
```
## Exercise
>The Jensen Potts Point is a family business, and they've got a rule that if any of the visitors have the same name as one of them or their children, they'll offer the visitor a discount of 10%. The family members go by the following names: Jenny, James, Jade, Josef, and Jacqueline. Could you look up which reviewers got a discount in the reviews table?

**NOTE**
- This is a two part problem and the first part requires you to find the listing_id of the host `The Jensen Potts Point`.  
- The reviewer column in the reviews table denotes the name of the visitor.
- Remember to use the IN clause since you're matching many names.
First problem find the id of `The Jensen Potts Point`
```SQL
SELECT * FROM listings WHERE host='The Jensen Potts Point'; --listing_id = 33757329 
```
Find reviewer who got the discount
```SQL
SELECT * FROM reviews WHERE listing_id = '33757329'
AND reviewer IN ('Jenny', 'James', 'Jade', 'Josef', 'Jacqueline');
```
With only 1 query
```SQL
SELECT * FROM reviews
WHERE listing_id = (SELECT listing_id FROM listings WHERE host='The Jensen Potts Point')
AND reviewer IN ('Jenny', 'James', 'Jade', 'Josef', 'Jacqueline');
```