We can play and manipulate text to match certain condition or we can controlling the output like we already talk in [[2. Controlling the Output]] 
## Filtering: Like, Percentage, & Underscore
We use this filter when we want to match some partial pattern on the text. Instead using full match like `room_type = 'Private Room'` we use `LIKE` clause to do partial matching. It can help filter based on substring, prefix, or suffix text. Here is the example of `LIKE` usage
```SQL
-- Matches all comments that mention cancellations 
SELECT * FROM reviews WHERE comments LIKE '%cancel%';
```
Those query will select any comment that contain the word `cancel` no matter where the `cancel` word is located on the comment. It use percentage `%` wildcard operator that will matches any string with zero or more characters. Other wildcard operator is underscore `_` that will match with a single character. Here some scenario that will explain those 2 wildcard operator
- `%s` matches any string that ends with s, so it matches 's', 'ends' and 'looks'. However, it does not match 'sit', 'test' or 'ghost'
- `%s_` matches any string whose second to last character is s, so it matches 'test' and 'ghost'
- `_s%` matches any string whose second character is s, so it matches 'assign' but not 'test'
### Another Example of LIKE clause
- Select anyone named `Ali`
```SQL
-- Matches all users whose name contain `Ali` like "Muhammad Ali", "Ali Akbar", etc.
SELECT * FROM users WHERE name like '%Ali %' -- Note the space after Ali
```
Space after `Ali` before the `%` will make sure only people with true Ali name that will be select not someone with the name like Alice, Alisha, Aliana. This query below will select someone with name Alice, Alisha, or Aliana
```SQL
-- Matches all users whose name contains `Ali` or `Ali...` 
-- Matches "Ali Wang", "Alisha Singh", and "Alice Black" but not "Al Ingles" 
SELECT * FROM users WHERE name like 'Ali%'
```

- Select the user with university email
```SQL
-- Makes sure the email is valid and contains an @ 
-- Matches domains that end with .ac.id 
-- Matches sam@gatech.ac.id but not sam@gmail.com or sam@banana.com 
SELECT * FROM users WHERE email like '%@%.ac.id'
```

## Changing The Output Data
Some operation that manipulate string for the output or the query
### Concatenation
We can merge text output using concatenation operator `||' '||`. Here is the example
```SQl
SELECT first_name, last_name,
-- This will concat the first two column name to print the full name 
first_name || ' ' || last_name AS full_name FROM users;
```
It will produce one more column labels as `full_name` that will concatenate the first and last name with space `' '` separator
> In MySQL,  `||` operator will not work. Instead we use `CONCAT()` function. The example above if we translate it to MySQL will become like this

```MySQL
SELECT first_name, last_name,
CONCAT(first_name, ' ', last_name) AS full_name FROM users
``` 
### Lower / Upper
Text operation is case sensitive so it will be very important to make sure we match the text to all uppercase or lowercase. We can use `UPPER()` function to change all the letter to uppercase or use `LOWER()` function to change all the letter to lowercase. Here is the example using `LOWER()` function
```SQL
SELECT comments FROM reviews WHERE LOWER(comments) LIKE '%great%'
```
Those query make sure all review with `great` word is filtered no matter how the `great` word is form (It could be Great, great, GREAT). 

## Exercise
>1. We want to get a list of all of the Chinese restaurants in the area

Solution for number 1
```SQL
SELECT * FROM restaurants WHERE category_1 = 'Chinese'
```

> 2. One of our team members really likes a small family-run restaurant. He told us the exact name, but unfortunately we can't remember it now. All we know is that it ended with the word "Snack"

Solution for number 2
```SQL
SELECT restaurant FROM restaurants
WHERE restaurant LIKE '%Snack'
```

> 3. We found a restaurant flyer, but we can only see that we have the letter 'C', missing character, 'i', and the letter 's' somewhere in the name

Solution for number 3
```SQL
SELECT restaurant, category_1 FROM restaurants
WHERE category_1 LIKE 'C_i%s%'
```